README.rst, before:

===============================================
OpenXC for Python
===============================================

.. image:: /docs/_static/logo.png

:Version: 0.15.0
:Web: http://openxcplatform.com
:Download: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/openxc/
:Documentation: http://python.openxcplatform.com
:Source: http://github.com/openxc/openxc-python/
:Keywords: vehicle, openxc, python

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/openxc/openxc-python.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/openxc/openxc-python

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/openxc/openxc-python/badge.png?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/openxc/openxc-python?branch=master

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/openxc-python-library/badge/
    :target: http://python.openxcplatform.com
    :alt: Documentation Status

The OpenXC Python library (for Python 2.7) provides an interface to
vehicle data from the OpenXC Platform. The primary platform for OpenXC
applications is Android, but for prototyping and testing, often it is
preferrable to use a low-overhead environment like Python when developing.

In addition to a port of the Android library API, the package also contains a
number of command-line tools for connecting to the CAN translator and
manipulating previously recorded vehicle data.


License
=======

Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Ford Motor Company

Licensed under the BSD license.

Commit message:

Add updated instructions for pypi deployment

README.rst, after:

===============================================
OpenXC for Python
===============================================

.. image:: /docs/_static/logo.png

:Version: 0.15.0
:Web: http://openxcplatform.com
:Download: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/openxc/
:Documentation: http://python.openxcplatform.com
:Source: http://github.com/openxc/openxc-python/
:Keywords: vehicle, openxc, python

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/openxc/openxc-python.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/openxc/openxc-python

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/openxc/openxc-python/badge.png?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/openxc/openxc-python?branch=master

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/openxc-python-library/badge/
    :target: http://python.openxcplatform.com
    :alt: Documentation Status

The OpenXC Python library (for Python 2.7) provides an interface to
vehicle data from the OpenXC Platform. The primary platform for OpenXC
applications is Android, but for prototyping and testing, often it is
preferrable to use a low-overhead environment like Python when developing.

In addition to a port of the Android library API, the package also contains a
number of command-line tools for connecting to the CAN translator and
manipulating previously recorded vehicle data.

To package run "setup.py sdist bdist_wheel"
to push to pypi run "python -m twine upload dist/*"


License
=======

Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Ford Motor Company

Licensed under the BSD license.
